\section{overview fed}


Particle Collision detection PCD) is a bottleneck.

gPCD begins with a cell array. The cell array is a grid of cells 1x1x1 whose location is the center of the the cell. Cell locations are unsigned integer values but for better memory management each cell 3 dimensional location is converted to an index. The cell array is then addressed by index. The cell array contains a particle occupancy array that holds the particle numbers of particles wholly or partially contained in the cell and is as long as the maximum number of particles that a cell can contain. Particle must have a diameter less than 1 so that it may not intersect more than 8 cells if it's center is located at the intersection of the eight cells. 

The particle structure array is the length of the number of particles and contains a corner location array of length 8. Each particle is represented by an AARB whose corners are used to locate particle cell occupancy. The cell occupancy array of the cell array contains the particle number whose corners occupy that cell. So each particle can have corners, in at most, eight cells.

During the broad phase processing each particle is assigned as a vertex in the vertex shader, The vertex shader launches 8 fragment invocations passing a unique ID (0-8) of the fragment. This ID is used as an index for each corner in the particle array corner location array thus avoiding read/write conflicts since each corner has an assigned location in the array. The fragment invocation locates the cell it occupies in real world coordinates which are then rounded to decode the cell address and then indexed to locate it in the cell array.

The broad phase particle corner placement strategy happens concurrently with the graphics processing of vertex and fragment. 


This PCS is passed to the compute shader which launches a thread for each particle. A loop is run on the particle array corner location array that locates the corner in the cell array. The cell array is then read and for each particle contained in that cell a distance calculation is made to determine if the particles have collided.

There are two types of duplicates - one in the particle array and one in the cell array. Corner duplicates in the particle array location array result from a particle with multiple corners in the cell (a completely contained particle will have eight duplicate corners).Particle duplicates result from particle sharing multiple corners in the same cell. Duplicates result in duplicate collisions.

Each compute particle invocation contains a local collision duplicates array. When a collision is found the particle colliding (target particle) with the current particle (source particle) is stored in this array. For each particle found sharing a cell location the array is check to see if the collision has already been accounted for and if so it skips. This way both particle and corner duplicates are eliminated. 

The method handles dispersed, scarce, or fast moving, particle distributions as efficiently as still non-moving particles
Particles are rendered as points.